# 2021-03-24 Authorization Panel

Time: 10am ET / 15:00 CET (timezone shift)

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization

## Present

* Elf Pavlik
* Matthieu
* Henry Story
* CSarven

## Agenda

* [Meeting notes 2021-03-17 #195](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/195) (1m)
* [Reword URI semantics UCR and fix typos #188](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/188)
* [+ characterize axes for access relationships #179](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/179)
* [Formatting and Typos #153](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/153)
* [Relating ACL and ACP ontologies #148](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/148)
* [Create wac-acp-diff-story.md #178](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/178)
* [Propose access request with LDN #28](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/28)
* [tiny cleanup after #152 #193](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/193)

## Present

## Minutes

## Actions
