# 2021-04-07 Solid Authorization

https://meet.jit.si/solid-authorization

## Agenda

* [Minutes from 03-31 #200](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/200/files) (1m)
* [Fix WACy pandemic #197](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/197)
* Tracking WAC, WAC+ and ACP related issues

## Present

* Elf Pavlik
* Henry Story
* Eric Prud'hommeaux
* Matthieu Bosquet
* Sarven Capadisli

## Minutes

* [Minutes from 03-31 #200](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/200/files) (1m) - Merged
* [Fix WACy pandemic #197](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/pull/197) - 1st April's fool - Closed

## Actions

Matthieu to follow up on the [ACP Issues](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3AACP).

Henry to notify ericP when he's done tagging "WAC", "WACplus", "ACP".

Pavlik to focus on feedback for issues [#189](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/189) & [#184](https://github.com/solid/authorization-panel/issues/184).
